
# Artificial Intelligence(AI) Tutorial

# What is AI?

A machine with the ability to perform cognitive functions such as perceiving, learning, reasoning and solve problems are deemed to hold an artificial intelligence.

Artificial intelligence exists when a machine has cognitive ability. The benchmark for AI is the human level concerning reasoning, speech, and vision.

AI has three different levels:

1.  **Narrow AI**: A artificial intelligence is said to be narrow when the machine can perform a specific task better than a human. The current research of AI is here now

2.  **General AI**: An artificial intelligence reaches the general state when it can perform any intellectual task with the same accuracy level as a human would

3.  **Strong AI**: An AI is strong when it can beat humans in many tasks

Nowadays, AI is used in almost all industries, giving a technological
edge to all companies integrating AI at scale. According to [McKinsey](https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/McKinsey/Business%20Functions/McKinsey%20Analytics/Our%20Insights/Crossing%20the%20frontier%20How%20to%20apply%20AI%20for%20impact/Crossing-the-frontier-collection.ashx), AI
has the potential to create 600 billions of dollars of value in retail,
bring 50 percent more incremental value in banking compared with other
analytics techniques. In transport and logistic, the potential revenue
jump is 89 percent more.

Concretely, if an organization uses AI for its marketing team, it can
automate mundane and repetitive tasks, allowing the sales representative
to focus on tasks like relationship building, lead nurturing, etc. A
company name Gong provides a conversation intelligence service. Each
time a Sales Representative make a phone call, the machine records
transcribes and analyzes the chat. The VP can use AI analytics and
recommendation to formulate a winning strategy.

In a nutshell, AI provides a cutting-edge technology to deal with
complex data which is impossible to handle by a human being. AI
automates redundant jobs allowing a worker to focus on the high level,
value-added tasks. When AI is implemented at scale, it leads to cost
reduction and revenue increase.

## A brief history of AI

Artificial intelligence is a buzzword today, although this term is not
new. In 1956, a group of avant-garde experts from different backgrounds
decided to organize a summer research project on AI. Four bright minds
led the project; John McCarthy (Dartmouth College), Marvin Minsky
(Harvard University), Nathaniel Rochester (IBM), and Claude Shannon
(Bell Telephone Laboratories).

The primary purpose of the research project was to tackle "every aspect
of learning or any other feature of intelligence that can in principle
be so precisely described, that a machine can be made to simulate it."

The proposal of the summits included

1.  Automatic Computers

2.  How Can a Computer Be Programmed to Use a Language?

3.  Neuron Nets

4.  Self-improvement

It led to the idea that intelligent computers can be created. A new era
began, full of hope - ***Artificial intelligence.***

## Type of Artificial Intelligence

Artificial intelligence can be divided into three subfields:

- Artificial intelligence

- Machine learning

- Deep learning

![](https://github.com/thomaspernet/Tensorflow/blob/master/image/tensorflow/1_What_is_AI_v9_files/image001.png)

## Machine Learning

Machine learning is the art of s**tudy of algorithms** that **learn**
from **examples** and **experiences**.

Machine learning is based on the idea that there **exist** some
**patterns** in the data that were **identified** and **used** for
future **predictions**.

The difference from hardcoding rules is that the **machine learns on its
own to find such rules.**

## Deep learning

Deep learning is a sub-field of machine learning. Deep learning does not
mean the machine learns more in-depth knowledge; it means the machine
uses different layers to learn from the data. The *depth* of the model
is represented by the number of layers in the model. For instance,
Google LeNet model for image recognition counts 22 layers.

In deep learning, the learning phase is done through a neural network. A
neural network is an architecture where the layers are stacked on top of
each other.

## AI vs. Machine Learning 

Most of our smartphone, daily device or even the internet uses
Artificial intelligence. Very often, **AI and machine learning are used
interchangeably by big companies that want to announce their latest
innovation. However, Machine learning and AI are different in some
ways**.

AI- artificial intelligence- is the science of training machines to
perform human tasks. The term was invented in the 1950s when scientists
began exploring how computers could solve problems on their own.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/1_What_is_AI_v9_files/image002.png)


Artificial Intelligence is a computer that is given human-like
properties. Take our brain; it works effortlessly and seamlessly to
calculate the world around us. Artificial Intelligence is the concept
that a computer can do the same. It can be said that AI is the large
science that mimics human aptitudes.

Machine learning is a distinct subset of AI that trains a machine how to
learn. Machine learning models look for patterns in data and try to
conclude. In a nutshell, the machine does not need to be explicitly
programmed by people. The programmers give some examples, and the
computer is going to learn what to do from those samples.

## Type of AI Systems

Three main subfields in the manner in which machine can learn:

-   Supervised learning

-   Unsupervised learning

-   Reinforcement Learning.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/1_What_is_AI_v9_files/image003.png)

## Supervised learning

In supervised learning, the training data you feed to the algorithm
includes a label.

-   **Classification** task is probably the most used supervised
    learning technique. One of the first classification task researchers
    tackled was the spam filter. The objective of the learning is to
    predict whether an email is classified as spam or ham (legitimate
    email). The machine, after the training step, can detect the class
    of email.

-   **Regressions** are commonly used in the machine learning field to
    predict continuous value. Regression task can predict the value of a
    dependent variable based on a set of independent variables (also
    called predictors or regressors). For instance, linear regressions
    can predict a stock price, weather forecast, sales and so on.

## Unsupervised learning

In unsupervised learning, the training data is unlabeled. The system
tries to learn without a reference. The algorithm explores input data
without being given an explicit output variable (e.g., examines customer
demographic data to identify patterns)

Unsupervised learning is used when we do not know how to classify the
data, and we want the algorithm to find patterns and classify the data
for us.

## Reinforcement learning

Reinforcement learning differs from supervised/unsupervised learning.
The machine evolves and interacts with an environment to find the best
strategy to achieve a particular task. Each of its action leads to a
reward. The best strategy is the one that gets the most rewards. For
instance, a reinforcement learning algorithm can be used to find the
best trading portfolio. The machine receives rewards for each increasing
returns of an investment.

## Where is AI used?

AI has broad applications-

-   Artificial intelligence is used to reduce or avoid the repetitive
    task. For instance, AI can repeat a task continuously, without
    fatigue. In fact, AI never rests, and it is indifferent to the task
    to carry out
-   Artificial intelligence improves an existing product. Before the age
    of machine learning, core products were building upon hard-code
    rule. Firms introduced artificial intelligence to enhance the
    functionality of the product rather than starting from scratch to
    design new products. You can think of a Facebook image. A few years
    ago, you had to tag your friends manually. Nowadays, with the help
    of AI, Facebook gives you a friend's recommendation.

AI is used in all the industries, from marketing to supply chain,
finance, food-processing sector. According to a McKinsey survey,
financial services and high tech communication are leading the AI
fields.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/1_What_is_AI_v9_files/image004.png)

## Why is AI booming now?

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/1_What_is_AI_v9_files/image005.png)

A neural network has been out since the nineties with the seminal paper
of Yann LeCun. However, it started to become famous around the year
2012. Explained by three critical factors for its popularity are:

1.  Hardware

2.  Data

3.  Algorithm

Machine learning is an experimental field, meaning it needs to have data
to test new ideas or approaches. With the boom of the internet, data
became more easily accessible. Besides, giant companies like NVIDIA and
AMD have developed high-performance graphics chips for the gaming
market.

**Hardware**

In the last twenty years, the power of the CPU has exploded, allowing
the user to train a small deep-learning model on any laptop. However, to
process a deep-learning model for computer vision or deep learning, you
need a more powerful machine. Thanks to the investment of NVIDIA and
AMD, a new generation of GPU (graphical processing unit) are available.
These chips allow parallel computations. It means the machine can
separate the computations over several GPU to speed up the calculations.

For instance, with an NVIDIA TITAN X, it takes two days to train a model
called **ImageNet** against weeks for a traditional CPU. Besides, big
companies use clusters of GPU to train deep learning model with the
NVIDIA Tesla K80 because it helps to reduce the data center cost and
provide better performances.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/1_What_is_AI_v9_files/image006.png)

**Data**

Deep learning is the structure of the model, and the data is the fluid
to make it alive. Data powers the artificial intelligence. Without data,
nothing can be done. Latest Technologies have pushed the boundaries of
data storage. It is easier than ever to store a high amount of data in a
data center.

Internet revolution makes data collection and distribution available to
feed machine learning algorithm. If you are familiar with Flickr,
Instagram or any other app with images, you can guess their AI
potential. There are millions of pictures with tags available on these
websites. Those pictures can be used to train a neural network model to
recognize an object on the picture without the need to manually collect
and label the data.

Artificial Intelligence combined with data is the new gold. Data is a
unique competitive advantage that no firm should neglect. AI provides
the best answers from your data. When all the firms can have the same
technologies, the one with data will have a competitive advantage over
the other. To give an idea, the world creates about 2.2 exabytes, or 2.2
billion gigabytes, every day.

A company needs exceptionally diverse data sources to be able to find
the patterns and learn and in a substantial volume.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/1_What_is_AI_v9_files/image007.png)

**Algorithm**

Hardware is more powerful than ever, data is easily accessible, but one
thing that makes the neural network more reliable is the development of
more accurate algorithms. Primary neural networks are a simple
multiplication matrix without in-depth statistical properties. Since
2010, remarkable discoveries have been made to improve the neural
network

Artificial intelligence uses a progressive learning algorithm to let the
data do the programming. It means, the computer can teach itself how to
perform different tasks, like finding anomalies, become a chatbot.

**Summary**

Artificial intelligence and machine learning are two confusing terms.
Artificial intelligence is the science of training machine to imitate or
reproduce human task. A scientist can use different methods to train a
machine. At the beginning of the AI's ages, programmers wrote hard-coded
programs, that is, type every logical possibility the machine can face
and how to respond. When a system grows complex, it becomes difficult to
manage the rules. To overcome this issue, the machine can use data to
learn how to take care of all the situations from a given environment.

The most important features to have a powerful AI is to have enough data
with considerable heterogeneity. For example, a machine can learn
different languages as long as it has enough words to learn from.

AI is the new cutting-edge technology. Ventures capitalist are investing
billions of dollars in startups or AI project. McKinsey estimates AI can
boost every industry by at least a double-digit growth rate.
