
# How to use Jupyter Notebook with AWS and Docker


This is a step by step tutorial, to used Jupyter
Notebook on AWS

If you do not have an account at AWS, create a free account
[here](https://aws.amazon.com/free).

# PART 1: Set up a key pair

**Step 1**: Go to **Services** and find **EC2**

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image001.png)

**Step 2**: In the panel and click on **Key Pairs**

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image002.png)

**Step 3**: Click Create Key Pair

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image003.png)

1)  You can call it `Docker key`

2)  Click Create

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image004.png)

A file name `Docker_key.pem`` downloads`.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image005.png)

**Step 4**: Copy and paste it into the folder
`key`. We will need it soon.

**For Mac OS user only**

This step concerns only Mac OS user. For Windows or Linux users, please
proceed to PART 2

You need to set a working directory that will contain the file key

First of all, create a folder named `key`. For us, it is located inside
the main folder `Docker`. Then, you set this path as your working
directory

    mkdir Docker/key
    cd Docker/key

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image006.png)

# 

# PART 2: Set up a security group

**Step 1**: You need to configure a security group. You can access it
with the panel

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image007.png)

**Step 2**: Click on Create Security Group

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image008.png)

**Step 3**: In the next Screen

1)  Enter Security group name "`jupyter_docker`" and Description
    Security Group for Docker

2)  You need to add 4 rules on top of

    -   `ssh`: port range `22`, source `Anywhere`
    
    -   `http`: port range `80`, source `Anywhere`
    
    -   `https`: port range `443`, source `Anywhere`
    
    -   `Custom TCP`: port range `8888`, source `Anywhere`

3)  Click Create

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image009.png)

**Step 4**: The newly created Security Group will be listed

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image010.png)

# Part 3: Launch instance

You are finally ready to create the instance

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image011.png)

**Step 1**: Click on Launch Instance

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image012.png)

The default server is enough for your need. You can choose Amazon Linux
AMI. The current instance is 2018.03.0.

AMI stands for Amazon Machine Image. It contains the information
required to successfully starts an instance that run on a virtual server
stored in the cloud.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image013.png)

Note that AWS has a server dedicated to deep learning such as:

-   **Deep Learning AMI (Ubuntu)**

-   **Deep Learning AMI**

-   **Deep Learning Base AMI (Ubuntu)**

*All of them* Comes with latest binaries of deep learning frameworks
pre-installed in separate virtual environments:

-   TensorFlow,

-   Caffe

-   PyTorch,

-   Keras,

-   Theano

-   CNTK.

Fully-configured with NVidia CUDA, cuDNN and NCCL as well as Intel
MKL-DNN

**Step 2**: Choose **t2.micro**. It is a free tier server. AWS offers
for free this virtual machine equipped with 1 vCPU and 1 GB of memory.
This server provides a good tradeoff between computation, memory and
network performance. It fits for small and medium database

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image014.png)

**Step 3**: Keep settings default in next screen and click Next: Add
Storage

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image015.png)

**Step 4**: Increase storage to 10GB and click Next

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image016.png)

**Step 5**: Keep settings default and click Next: Configure Security
Group

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image017.png)

**Step 6**: Choose the security group you created before, which is
**jupyter_docker**

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image018.png)

**Step 7**: Review your settings and Click the launch button

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image019.png)

**Step 8**: The last step is to link the key pair to the instance.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image020.png)

**Step 8**: Instance will launch

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image021.png)

**Step 9**: Below a summary of the instances currently in use. Note the
public IP

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image022.png)

**Step 9**: Click on Connect

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image023.png)

You will find the connection detials

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image024.png)

## Launch your instance (Mac OS users)

At first make sure that inside the terminal, your working directory
points to the folder with the key pair file `docker`

run the code

    chmod 400 docker.pem

Open the connection with this code.

There are two codes. in some case, the first code avoids Jupyter to open
the notebook.

In this case, use the second one to force the connection.

    # If able to launch Jupyter
    ssh -i "docker.pem" ec2-user@ec2-18-219-192-34.us-east-2.compute.amazonaws.com
    
    # If not able to launch Jupyter
    ssh -i "docker.pem" ec2-user@ec2-18-219-192-34.us-east-2.compute.amazonaws.com -L 8888:127.0.0.1:8888

The first time, you are prompted to accept the connection

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image025.png)

# Launch your instance (Windows users)

**Step 1)** Go to this website to download PuTTY and PuTTYgen
[PuTTY](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html)

You need to download

-   PuTTY: launch the instance

-   PuTTYgen: convert the pem file to ppk

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image026.png)

Now that both software are installed, you need to convert the .pem file
to .ppk. PuTTY can only read .ppk. The pem file contains the unique key
created by AWS.

**Step 2**: Open PuTTYgen and click on Load. Browse the folder where the
.pem file is located.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image027.png)

**Step 3**: After you loaded the file, you should get a notice informing
you that the key has been successfully imported. Click on OK

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image028.png)

**Step 4**: Then click on Save private key. You are asked if you want to
save this key without a passphrase. Click on yes.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image029.png)

**Step 5**: Save the Key

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image030.png)

**Step 6**: Go to AWS and copy the public DNS

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image031.png)

Open PuTTY and paste the Public DNS in the Host Name

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image032.png)

**Step 7**:

1)  On the left panel, unfold SSH and open Auth

2)  Browse the Private Key. You should select the .ppk

3)  Click on Open.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image033.png)

**Step 8**:

When this step is done, a new window will be opened. Click Yes if you
see this pop-up

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image034.png)

**Step 9**:

You need to login as: ec2-user

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image035.png)

**Step 10**:

You are connected to the Amazon Linux AMI.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image036.png)

# Part 4: Install Docker

While you are connected with the server via Putty/Terminal, you can
install **Docker** container.

Execute the following codes

    sudo yum update -y
    sudo yum install -y docker
    sudo service docker start
    sudo usermod -a -G docker ec2-user
    exit

Launch again the connection

    ssh -i "docker.pem" ec2-user@ec2-18-219-192-34.us-east-2.compute.amazonaws.com -L 8888:127.0.0.1:8888
    
    Windows users use SSH as mentioned above

# Part 5: Install Jupyter

**Step 1**: Create Jupyter with a pre-built image

    ## Tensorflow
    docker run -v ~/work:/home/jovyan/work -d -p 8888:8888 jupyter/tensorflow-notebook 
    
    ## Spark
    docker run -v ~/work:/home/jovyan/work -d -p 8888:8888 jupyter/pyspark-notebook

Code Explanation

-   `docker run`: Run the image

-   `v`: attach a volume

-   `~/work:/home/jovyan/work`: Volume

-   `8888:8888`: port

-   `jupyter``/datascience-notebook`: Image

For other pre-build images, go
[here](https://github.com/jupyter/docker-stacks)

Allow preserving Jupyter notebook

    sudo chown 1000 ~/work

**Step 2**: Install tree to see our working directory next

    sudo yum install -y tree

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image037.png)

**Step 3**:

1)  Check the container and its name (changes with every installation)
    Use command `docker ``ps`

2)  Get the name and use the log to open Jupyter. In the tutorial, the
    container's name is
    `vigilant_easley`. Use command `Docker logs vigilant_easley`

3)  Get the URL

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image038.png)

**Step 4**:

In the URL

http://(90a3c09282d6 or
127.0.0.1):8888/?token=f460f1e79ab74c382b19f90fe3fd55f9f99c5222365eceed

Replace (90a3c09282d6 or 127.0.0.1) with Public DNS of your instance

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image039.png)

**Step 5**:

The new URL becomes

http://**ec2-174-129-135-16.compute-1.amazonaws.com:**8888/?token=f460f1e79ab74c382b19f90fe3fd55f9f99c5222365eceed

**Step 6**: Copy and paste the URL into your browser. Jupyter Opens

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image040.png)

**Step 7**:

You can write a new Notebook in the `work` folder

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image041.png)

# Part 6: Close connection

Close the connection in the terminal

    exit

Go back to AWS and stop the server.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/23_Tuto_set_up_AWS_v5_files/image042.png)
