
# How to Download and Install TensorFlow Windows and Mac 

In this tutorial, we will explain how to install **TensorFlow** with
**Anaconda**. You will learn how to use TensorFlow with Jupyter. Jupyter
is a notebook viewer.

## TensorFlow Versions

TensorFlow supports computations across multiple CPUs and GPUs. It means
that the computations can be distributed across devices to improve the
speed of the training. With parallelization, you don't need to wait for
weeks to obtain the results of training algorithms.

For Windows user, TensorFlow provides two versions:

-   **TensorFlow with CPU support only**: If your Machine does not run
    on NVIDIA GPU, you can only install this version

-   **TensorFlow with GPU support**: For faster computation, you can use
    this version of TensorFlow. This version makes sense only if you
    need strong computational capacity.

During this tutorial, the basic version of TensorFlow is sufficient.

**Note:** TensorFlow does not provides GPU support on MacOS.

Here is how to proceed

MacOS User:

-   Install Anaconda

-   Create a `.yml` file to install Tensorflow and dependencies

-   Launch Jupyter Notebook

Windows User:

-   Install Anaconda

-   Create a `.yml` file to install dependencies

-   Use pip to add TensorFlow

-   Launch Jupyter Notebook

To run Tensorflow with Jupyter, you need to create an environment within
Anaconda. It means you will install Ipython, Jupyter, and TensorFlow in
an appropriate folder inside our machine. On top of this, you will add
one essential library for data science: "Pandas". The Pandas library
helps to manipulate a data frame.

## Install Anaconda 

Download [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/download/) version 4.3.1 (for Python 3.6) for the appropriate system.

Anaconda will help you to manage all the libraries required either for
Python or R. 

## Create a `.yml` file to install Tensorflow and dependencies

It includes

1.   Locate the path of Anaconda

2.   Set the working directory to Anaconda

3.   Create the `yml` file (For MacOS user, TensorFlow is installed here)

4.   Edit the `yml` file

5.   Compile the `yml` file

6.   Activate Anaconda

7.   Install TensorFlow (Windows user only)

**Step 1)** Locate Anaconda

The first step you need to do is to locate the path of Anaconda. You
will create a new conda environment that includes the necessaries
libraries you will use during the tutorials about TensorFlow.

**Windows**

If you are a Windows user, you can use *Anaconda Prompt* and type:

```markdown
C:\>where anaconda
```

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image001.png)

We are interested to know the name of the folder where Anaconda is
installed because we want to create our new environment inside this
path. For instance, in the picture above, Anaconda is installed in the
`Admin` folder. For you, it can the same, i.e. `Admin` or the user's
name.

In the next, we will set the working directory from `c:\` to
`Anaconda3`.

**MacOS**

for MacOS user, you can use the Terminal and type:

    which anaconda



![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image002.png)

You will need to create a new folder inside Anaconda which will contains
**Ipython**, **Jupyter** and **TensorFlow**. A quick way to install
libraries and software is to write a `yml` file.

**Step 2)** Set working directory

You need to specify the working directory where you want to create the
`yml` file. As said before, it will be located inside Anaconda.

**For MacOS user:**

The Terminal sets the default working directory to **Users/USERNAME**.
As you can see in the figure below, the path of *anaconda3* and the
working directory are identical. In MacOS, the latest folder is shown
before the \$. The Terminal will install all the libraries in this
working directory.

If the path on the text editor does not match the working directory, you
can change it by writing `cd PATH` in the Terminal. PATH is the path you
pasted in the text editor. Don't forget to wrap the PATH with 'PATH'.
This action will change the working directory to PATH.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image003.png)

Open your Terminal, and type:

    cd anaconda3

For Windows user (make sure of the folder before Anaconda3):

    cd C:\Users\Admin\Anaconda3

or the path "where anaconda" command gives you

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image004.png)

**Step 3)** Create the `yml` file

You can create the `yml` file inside the new working directory. The file
will install the dependencies you need to run TensorFlow. Copy and paste
this code into the Terminal.

**For MacOS user:**

    touch hello-tf.yml

A new file named `hello-tf.yml` should appear inside *anaconda3*

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image005.png)

**For Windows user:**

    echo.>hello-tf.yml

A new file named `hello-tf.yml` should appear

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image006.png)

**Step 4)** Edit the `yml` file

**For MacOS user:**

You are ready to edit the `yml` file. You can paste the following code
in the Terminal to edit the file. MacOS user can use **vim** to edit the
`yml` file.

    vi hello-tf.yml

So far, your Terminal looks like this

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image007.png)

You enter an **edit** mode. Inside this mode, you can, after pressing
`esc`:

-   Press `i` to edit

-   Press `w` to save

-   Press `q!` to quit

Write the following code in the edit mode and press `esc` followed by
`:w`

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image008.png)

**Note:** The file is case **and** intend sensitive. 2 spaces are
required after each intend.

For MacOS

    name: hello-tf
    dependencies:
    
      - python=3.6
      - jupyter
      - ipython
      - pandas
      - pip:
          - https://storage.googleapis.com/tensorflow/mac/cpu/tensorflow-1.9.0-py3-none-any.whl

Code Explanation

-   `name: hello-tf`: Name of the yml file

-   `dependencies`:

-   `python=3.6`

-   `jupyter`

-   `ipython`

-   `pandas`: Install Python version 3.6, Jupyter, Ipython,and pandas
    libraries

-   `pip:` Install a Python library

    -   `https://storage.googleapis.com/tensorflow/mac/cpu/tensorflow-1.9.0-py3-none-any.whl`: Install TensorFlow from Google apis.

Press `esc` followed by `:q!` to quite the edit mode.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image009.png)

**For Windows User:**

Windows does not have vim program, so the Notepad is enough to complete
this step.

    notepad hello-tf.yml

Enter following into the file

    name: hello-tf
    dependencies:
      - python=3.6
      - jupyter
      - ipython
      - pandas
      - seaborn 

Code Explanation

-   `name: hello-tf`: Name of the yml file

-   `dependencies:`

-   `python=3.6`

-   `jupyter`

-   `ipython`

-   `pandas`: Install Python version 3.6, Jupyter, Ipython,and pandas
    libraries

It will open the notepad, you can edit the file from here.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image010.png)

**Note:** Windows users will install TensorFlow in the next step. In
this step, you only prepare the conda environment

**Step 5)** Compile the `yml` file

You can compile the .yml file with the following code :

    conda env create -f hello-tf.yml

**Note:** For Windows users, the new environment is created inside the
current user directory.

It takes times. It will take around 1.1gb of space in your hard disk.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image011.png)

In Windows

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image012.png)

**Step 6)** Activate conda environment

We are almost done. You have now 2 conda environments. You created an
isolated conda environment with the libraries you will use during the
tutorials. This is a recommended practice because each machine learning
project requires different libraries. When the project is over, you can
remove or not this environment.

    conda env list

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image013.png)

The asterix indicates the default one. You need to switch to
`hello-tf` to activate the environment

For MacOS user:

    source activate hello-tf

For Windows user:

    activate hello-tf

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image014.png)

You can check all dependencies are in the same environment. This is
important because it allows Python to use Jupyter and TensorFlow from
the same environment. If you don't see the three of them located in the
same folder, you need to start all over again.

For MacOS user:

    which python
    which jupyter
    which ipython

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image015.png)

**Optional:** You can check for update.

    pip install --upgrade tensorflow

**Step 7)** For Windows user only: Install TensorFlow

For windows user:

    where python
    where jupyter
    where ipython

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image016.png)

As you can see, you now have two Python environments. The main one and
the newly created on i.e. `hello-tf`. The main conda environment does
not have tensorFlow installed only `hello-tf`. From the picture,
python, jupyter and ipython are installed in the same environment. It
means, you can use TensorFlow with a Jupyter Notebook.

You need to install Tensorflow with the following command. Only for
Windows user

    pip install tensorflow

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image017.png)

## Launch Jupyter Notebook

This part is the same for both OS.

You can open TensorFlow with Jupyter.

**Note:** Each time you want to open TensorFlow, you need to initialize
the environment

You will proceed as follow:

-   Activate `hello-tf` conda environment

-   Open Jupyter

-   Import tensorflow

-   Delete Notebook

-   Close Jupyter

**Step 1)** Activate conda

For MacOS user:

    source activate hello-tf

For Windows user:

    conda activate hello-tf

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image018.png)

**Step 2)** Open Jupyter

After that, you can open Jupyter from the Terminal

    jupyter notebook

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image019.png)

Your browser should open automatically, otherwise copy and paste the url
provided by the Terminal. It starts by `http://localhost:8888`

Inside the Jupyter Notebook, you can see all the files inside the
working directory. To create a new Notebook, you simply click on **new**
and **Python 3**

**Note:** The new notebook is automatically saved inside the working
directory.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image020.png)

**Step 3)** Import Tensorflow

Inside the notebook, you can import TensorFlow with the `tf` alias.
Click to run. A new cell is created below.

    import tensorflow as tf

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image021.png)

Let's write your first code with TensorFlow.

    hello = tf.constant('Hello world!')
    hello

A new tensor is created. Congratulation. You successfully install
TensorFlow with Jupyter on your Machine.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image022.png)

**Step 4)** Delete file

You can delete the file named `Untitled.ipynb` inside Jupyer.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image023.png)



**Step 5)** Close Jupyter

There are two ways of closing Jupyter. The first way is directly from
the notebook. The second way is by using the terminal (or Anaconda
Prompt)

**From Jupyter**

In the main panel of Jupyter Notebook, simply click on **Logout**

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image024.png)

You are redirected to the log out page.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image025.png)

**From the terminal**

Select the *terminal* or *Anaconda prompt* and run twice `ctr+c`.

The first time you do `ctr+c`, you are asked to confirm you want to shut
down the notebook. Repeat `ctr+c` to confirm

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image026.png)

and then, you should see this

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image027.png)

You have successfully logged out.

## Jupyter with the main conda environment

If you want to launch TensorFlow with jupyter for future use, you need
to open a new session with

    source activate hello-tf

If you don't, Jupyter will not find TensorFlow

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/7_install-tensorflow_files/image028.png)
