
# What is Jupyter Notebook?

A Jupyter notebook is a web application that allows the user to write
codes and rich text elements. Inside the Notebooks, you can write
paragraph, equations, title, add links, figures and so on. A notebook is
useful to share interactive algorithms with your audience by focusing on
teaching or demonstrating a technique. Jupyter Notebook is also a
convenient way to run data analysis.

## Jupyter Notebook App

The Jupyter Notebook App is the interface where you can write your
scripts and codes through your web browser. The app can be used locally,
meaning you don't need internet access, or a remote server.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image029.png)

Each computation is done via a kernel. A new kernel is created each time
you launch a Jupyter Notebook.

## How to use Jupyter

In the session below, you will learn how to use Jupyter Notebook. You
will write a simple line of code to get familiar with the environment of
Jupyter.

**Step 1)** You add a folder inside the working directory that will
contains all the notebooks you will create during the tutorials about
TensorFlow.

Open the Terminal and write

    mkdir jupyter_tf
    jupyter notebook

*Code Explanation*

-   `mkdir jupyter_tf`: Create a folder names `jupyter_tf`

-   `jupyter notebook`: Open Jupyter web-app

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image030.png)**Step 2)** You can see the new folder inside the environment. Click on
the folder `jupyter_tf`.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image031.png)

**Step 3)** Inside this folder, you will create your first notebook.
Click on the button **New** and **Python 3**.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image032.png)

**Step 4)** You are inside the Jupyter environment. So far, your
notebook is called *Untiltled.ipynb*. This is the default name given by
Jupyter. Let's rename it by clicking on **File** and **Rename**

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image032.png)

You can rename it *Introduction\_jupyter*

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image034.png)

In Jupyter Notebook, you write codes, annotation or text inside the
cells.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image035.png)

Inside a cell, you can write a single line of code.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image036.png)

or multiple lines. Jupyter reads the code one line after another.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image037.png)

For instance, if you write following code inside a cell.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image038.png)

It will produce this output.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image039.png)

**Step 5)** You are ready to write your first line of code. You can
notice the cell have two colors. The green color mean you are in the
**editing mode**.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image040.png)

The blue color, however, indicates you are in **executing mode**.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image041.png)

You first line of code will be to print `Guru``99!`. Inside the cell,
you can write

    print("Hello World!")

There are two ways to run a code in Jupyter:

-   **Click and Run**

-   **Keyboard Shortcuts**

To run the code, you can click on **Cell** and then **Run Cells and**
**Select Below**



![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image042.png)

You can see the code is printed below the cell and a new cell has
appeared right after the output.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image043.png)

A faster way to run a code is to use the **Keyboard Shortcuts**. To
access the Keyboard Shortcuts, go to **Help** and **Keyboard Shortcuts**

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image044.png)

Below the list of shortcuts for a MacOS keyboard. You can edit the
shortcuts in the editor.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image045.png)

Following are shortcuts for Windows

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image046.png)

Write this line

    print("Hello world!")

and try to use the Keyboard Shortcuts to run the code. Use `alt+enter`.
it will execute the cell and insert a new empty cell below, like you did
before.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image047.png)

**Step 6)** It is time to close the Notebook. Go to **File** and click
on **Close and Halt**

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image048.png)

**Note**: Jupyter automatically saves the notebook with checkpoint. If
you have the following message:

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image049.png)

It means Jupyter didn't save the file since the last checkpoint. You can
manually save the notebook

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image050.png)

You will be redirected to the main panel. You can see your notebook has
been saved a minute ago. You can safely logout.

![](/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/GitHub/project/Tensorflow/image/tensorflow/8_jupiter-notebook_files/image051.png)

## Summary

-   Jupyter notebook is a web application where you can run your Python
    and R codes. It is easy to share and deliver rich data analysis with
    Jupyter.

-   To launch jupyter, write in the terminal: `jupyter notebook`

-   You can save you notebook whereever you want

-   A cell contains your Python code. The kernel will read the code one
    by one.

-   You can use the shortcut to run a cell. By default: `Ctrl+Enter`



