---
title: Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Deep learing?
author: Thomas
date: '2018-08-29'
slug: artificial-inteligence
categories: []
tags:
  - AI
header:
  caption: ''
  image: ''
---  

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

# Artificial Intelligence

Artificial intelligence subsists when a machine has cognitive ability.
The benchmark for AI is the human intelligence regarding reasoning,
speech, and vision. This benchmark is far off in the future.

AI is just a figurative term. The actual magic is
ML and Deep Learning. No library performs AI per say. The primary
purpose of AI is to mimic human abilities.

AI has three different levels:

1.  **Narrow AI**: A artificial intelligence is said to be narrow when
    the machine can perform a specific task better than a human. The
    current research of AI is here now

2.  **General AI**: An artificial intelligence reaches the general state
    when it can perform any intellectual task with the same accuracy
    level as a human would

3.  **Active AI**: An AI is active when it can beat humans in many tasks

# Machine Learning?

Machine learning is the best tool so far to analyze, understand and
identify a pattern in the data. One of the main ideas behind machine
learning is that the computer can be trained to automate tasks that
would be exhaustive or impossible for a human being. The clear breach
from the traditional analysis is that machine learning can take
decisions with minimal human intervention.

Machine learning uses data to feed an algorithm that can understand the
relationship between the input and the output. When the machine finished
learning, it can predict the value or the class of new data point.

# Deep Learning?

Deep learning is a family of machine learning. Deep learning does not
mean the machine learns more in-depth knowledge; it means the machine
uses different layers to learn from the data. The *depth* of the model
is represented by the number of layers in the model. Deep learning is
the new state of the art in term of AI. In deep learning, the learning
phase is done through a neural network. A neural network is an
architecture where the layers are stacked on top of each
other.

##  Machine Learning Process

Imagine you are meant to build a program that recognizes objects. To
train the model, you will use a **classifier**. A classifier uses the
features of an object to try identifying the class it belongs to.

In the example, the classifier will be trained to detect if the image is
a:

-   Bicycle

-   Boat

-   Car

-   Plane

The four objects above are the class the classifier has to recognize. To
construct a classifier, you need to have some data as input and assigns
a label to it. The algorithm will take these data, find a pattern and
then classify it in the class it corresponds to.

This task is called **supervised learning.** In supervised learning, the
training data you feed to the algorithm includes a *label*.

Training an algorithm requires to follow a few standard steps:

-   Collect the data

-   Train the classifier

-   Make predictions

The first step is necessary, choosing the right data will make the
algorithm success or a failure. The data you choose to train the model
is called a **feature.** In the object example, the features are the
pixels of the images.

Each image is a row in the data while each pixel is a column. If your
image is a 28x28 size, the dataset contains 784 columns (28x28). In the
picture below, each picture has been transformed into a feature vector.
The label tells the computer what object is in the image.

![](https://github.com/thomaspernet/Tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/4_AI_ML_DL_v7_files/image001.png)


The objective is to use these training data to classify the type of
object. The first step consists of creating the feature columns. Then,
the second step involves choosing an algorithm to train the model. When
the training is done, the model will predict what picture corresponds to
what object.

After that, it is easy to use the model to predict new images. For each
new image feeds into the model, the machine will predict the class it
belongs to. For example, an entirely new image without a label is going
through the model. For a human being, it is trivial to visualize the
image as a car. The machine uses its previous knowledge to predict as
well the image is a car.

## Deep Learning Process

In deep learning, the learning phase is done through a neural network. A
neural network is an architecture where the layers are stacked on top of
each other.

Consider the same image example above. The training set would be fed to
a neural network

Each input goes into a neuron and is multiplied by a weight. The result
of the multiplication flows to the next layer and become the input. This
process is repeated for each layer of the network. The final layer is
named the output layer; it provides an actual value for the regression
task and a probability of each class for the classification task. The
neural network uses a mathematical algorithm to update the weights of
all the neurons. The neural network is fully trained when the value of
the weights gives an output close to the reality. For instance, a
well-trained neural network can recognize the object on a picture with
higher accuracy than the traditional neural net.

![](https://github.com/thomaspernet/Tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/4_AI_ML_DL_v7_files/image002.png)

##  Automate Feature Extraction using DL

A dataset can contain a dozen to hundreds of features. The system will
learn from the relevance of these features. However, not all features
are meaningful for the algorithm. A crucial part of machine learning is
to find a relevant set of features to make the system learns something.

One way to perform this part in machine learning is to use feature
extraction. Feature extraction combines existing features to create a
more relevant set of features. It can be done with PCA, T-SNE or any
other dimensionality reduction algorithms.

For example, an image processing, the practitioner needs to extract the
feature manually in the image like the eyes, the nose, lips and so on.
Those extracted features are feed to the classification model.

Deep learning solves this issue, especially for a convolutional neural
network. The first layer of a neural network will learn small details
from the picture; the next layers will combine the previous knowledge to
make more complex information. In the convolutional neural network, the
feature extraction is done with the use of the filter. The network
applies a filter to the picture to see if there is a match, i.e., the
shape of the feature is identical to a part of the image. If there is a
match, the network will use this filter. The process of feature
extraction is therefore done automatically.

##  Comparison Table of Machine Learning vs. Deep Learning

| Machine Learning      | Deep Learning                                                                                              |                                                                                                           |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Data Dependencies     | Excellent performances on a small/medium dataset                                                           | Excellent performance on a big dataset                                                                    |
| Hardware dependencies | Work on a low-end machine.                                                                                 | Requires powerful machine, preferably with GPU: DL performs a significant amount of matrix multiplication |
| Feature engineering   | Need to understand the features that represent the data                                                    | No need to understand the best feature that represents the data                                           |
| Execution time        | From few minutes to hours                                                                                  | Up to weeks. Neural Network needs to compute a significant number of weights                              |
| Interpretability      | Some algorithms are easy to interpret (logistic, decision tree), some are almost impossible (SVM, XGBoost) | Difficult to impossible                                                                                   |

## When to use ML or DL?

![](https://github.com/thomaspernet/Tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/4_AI_ML_DL_v7_files/image003.png)

In the table below, we summarize the difference between machine learning
and deep learning.

|                      | Machine learning | Deep learning |
|----------------------|------------------|---------------|
| Training dataset     | Small            | Large         |
| Choose features      | Yes              | No            |
| Number of algorithms | Many             | Few           |
| Training time        | Short            | Long          |

With machine learning, you need fewer data to train the algorithm than
deep learning. Deep learning requires an extensive and diverse set of
data to identify the underlying structure. Besides, machine learning
provides a faster-trained model. Most advanced deep learning
architecture can take days to a week to train. The advantage of deep
learning over machine learning is it is highly accurate. You do not need
to understand what features are the best representation of the data; the
neural network learned how to select critical features. In machine
learning, you need to choose for yourself what features to include in
the model.

![](https://github.com/thomaspernet/Tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/4_AI_ML_DL_v7_files/image004.png)

## Summary

Artificial intelligence is the new buzzword. Generally speaking,
artificial intelligence can be classified into three categories, narrow
AI, general AI or active AI.

Artificial intelligence regroups machine learning with deep learning as
a subfield of machine learning. The idea behind machine learning the
machine can learn without human intervention. The machine needs to find
a way to learn how to solve a task given the data. Deep learning is the
breakthrough in the field of artificial intelligence. When there is
enough data to train on, deep learning achieves impressive results,
especially for image recognition and text translation. The main reason
is the feature extraction is done automatically in the different layers
of the network.
