
# Anatomy deep learning

A neural network is composed of four principal objects:

-   Layers: all the learning occurs in the layers. There are 3 layers
    - 1)
    Input
    - 2) Hidden
    - 3) Output

-   feature and label: Input data to the network(features) and output
    from the network (labels)

-   loss function: Metric used to estimate the performance of the
    learning phase

-   optimizer: Improve the learning by updating the knowledge in the
    network

A neural network will take the input data and push them into an ensemble
of layers. The network needs to evaluate its performance with a loss
function. The loss function gives to the network an idea of the path it
needs to take before it masters the knowledge. The network needs to
improve its knowledge with the help of an optimizer.

If you take a look at the figure below, you will understand the
underlying mechanism.

![](https://github.com/thomaspernet/Tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/19_ANN_v9_files/image001.png)

The program takes some input values and pushes them into two fully
connected layers. Imagine you have a math problem, the first thing you
do is to read the corresponding chapter to solve the problem. You apply
your new knowledge to solve the problem. There is a high chance you will
not score very well. It is the same for a network. The first time it
sees the data and makes a prediction, it will not match perfectly with
the actual data.

To improve its knowledge, the network uses an optimizer. In our analogy,
an optimizer can be thought of as rereading the chapter. You gain new
insights/lesson by reading again. Similarly, the network uses the
optimizer, updates its knowledge, and tests its new knowledge to check
how much it still needs to learn. The program will repeat this step
until it makes the lowest error possible.

In our math problem analogy, it means you read the textbook chapter many
times until you thoroughly understand the course content. Even after
reading multiple times, if you keep making an error, it means you
reached the knowledge capacity with the current material. You need to
use different textbook or test different method to improve your score.
For a neural network, it is the same process. If the error is far from
100%, but the curve is flat, it means with the current architecture; it
cannot learn anything else. The network has to be better optimized to
improve the knowledge.

## The architecture of a neural network

**Layers**

A layer is where all the learning takes place. Inside a layer, there are
an infinite amount of weights (neurons). A typical neural network is
often processed by densely connected layers (also called fully connected
layers). It means all the inputs are connected to the output.

A typical neural network takes a vector of input and a scalar that
contains the labels. The most comfortable set up is a binary
classification with only two classes: 0 and 1.

The network takes an input, sends it to all connected nodes and computes
the signal with an **activation** function.

![](https://github.com/thomaspernet/Tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/19_ANN_v9_files/image002.png)

The figure above plots this idea. The first layer is the input values
for the second layer, called the hidden layer, receives the weighted
input from the previous layer

1.  The first node is the input values

2.  The neuron is decomposed into the input part and the activation
    function. The left part receives all the input from the previous
    layer. The right part is the sum of the input passes into an
    activation function.

3.  Output value computed from the hidden layers and used to make a
    prediction. For classification, it is equal to the number of class.
    For regression, only one value is predicted.

**Activation function**

The activation function of a node defines the output given a set of
inputs. You need an activation function to allow the network to learn
non-linear pattern. A common activation function is a ***Relu, Rectified
linear unit.*** The function gives a zero for all negative values.

![](https://github.com/thomaspernet/Tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/19_ANN_v9_files/image003.png)

The other activation functions are:

-   Piecewise Linear

-   Sigmoid

-   Tanh

-   Leaky Relu

The critical decision to make when building a neural network is:

-   How many layers in the neural network

-   How many hidden units for each layer

Neural network with lots of layers and hidden units can learn a complex
representation of the data, but it makes the network's computation very
expensive.

## Loss function

After you have defined the hidden layers and the activation function,
you need to specify the loss function and the optimizer.

For binary classification, it is common practice to use a binary cross
entropy loss function. In the linear regression, you use the mean square
error.

The loss function is an important metric to estimate the performance of
the optimizer. During the training, this metric will be minimized. You
need to select this quantity carefully depending on the type of problem
you are dealing with.

## Optimizer

The loss function is a measure of the model's performance. The optimizer
will help improve the weights of the network in order to decrease the
loss. There are different optimizers available, but the most common one
is the Stochastic Gradient Descent.

The conventional optimizers are:

-   Momentum optimization,

-   Nesterov Accelerated Gradient,

-   AdaGrad,

-   Adam optimization

## Limitations of Neural Network

**Overfitting**

A common problem with the complex neural net is the difficulties in
generalizing unseen data. A neural network with lots of weights can
identify specific details in the train set very well but often leads to
overfitting. If the data are unbalanced within groups (i.e., not enough
data available in some groups), the network will learn very well during
the training but will not have the ability to generalize such pattern to
never-seen-before data.

There is a trade-off in machine learning between *optimization* and
*generalization*.

Optimize a model requires to find the best parameters that minimize the
loss of the training set.

Generalization, however, tells how the model behaves for unseen data.

To prevent the model from capturing specific details or unwanted
patterns of the training data, you can use different techniques. The
best method is to have a balanced dataset with sufficient amount of
data. The art of reducing overfitting is called **regularization**.
Let's review some conventional techniques.

## Network size

A neural network with too many layers and hidden units are known to be
highly sophisticated. A straightforward way to reduce the complexity of
the model is to reduce its size. There is no best practice to define the
number of layers. You need to start with a small amount of layer and
increases its size until you find the model overfit.

## Weight Regularization

A standard technique to prevent overfitting is to add constraints to the
weights of the network. The constraint forces the size of the network to
take only small values. The constraint is added to the loss function of
the error. There are two kinds of regularization:

L1: Lasso: Cost is proportional to the absolute value of the weight
coefficients

L2: Ridge: Cost is proportional to the square of the value of the weight
coefficients

## Dropout

Dropout is an odd but useful technique. A network with dropout means
that some weights will be randomly set to zero. Imagine you have an
array of weights \[0.1, 1.7, 0.7, -0.9\]. If the neural network has a
dropout, it will become \[0.1, 0, 0, -0.9\] with randomly distributed 0.
The parameter that controls the dropout is the dropout rate. The rate
defines how many weights to be set to zeroes. Having a rate between 0.2
and 0.5 is common.

## Example neural network

Let's see in action how a neural network works for a typical
classification problem. There are two inputs, `x1` and `x2` with a
random value. The output is a binary class. The objective is to classify
the label based on the two features. To carry out this task, the neural
network architecture is defined as following:

-   Two hidden layers

-   First layer has four fully connected neurons

-   Second layer has two fully connected neurons

-   The activation function is a Relu

-   Add an L2 Regularization with a learning rate of 0.003

![](https://github.com/thomaspernet/Tensorflow/blob/masterhttps://media.giphy.com/media/5ZYsQXWwAsHwRLcsOC/giphy.gif" width="400" height="400" />


The network will optimize the weight during 180 epochs with a batch size
of 10. In the video below you can see how the weights evolve over and
how the network improves the classification mapping.

First of all, the network assigns random values to all the weights.

-   With the random weights, i.e., without optimization, the output loss
    is 0.453. The picture below represents the network with different
    colors.

-   In general, the orange color represents negative values while the
    blue colors show the positive values.

-   The data points have the same representation; the blue ones are the
    positive labels and the orange one the negative labels.

![](https://github.com/thomaspernet/Tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/19_ANN_v9_files/image005.png)

Inside the second hidden layer, the lines are colored following the sign
of the weights. The orange lines assign negative weights and the blue
one a positive weights

As you can see, in the output mapping, the network is making quite a lot
of mistake. Let's see how the network behaves after optimization.

![](https://github.com/thomaspernet/Tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/19_ANN_v9_files/image006.png)

The picture below depicts the results of the optimized network. First of
all, you notice the network has successfully learned how to classify the
data point. You can see from the picture before; the initial weight was
-0.43 while after optimization it results in a weight of -0.95.

![](https://github.com/thomaspernet/Tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/19_ANN_v9_files/image006.png)
The idea can be generalized for networks with more hidden layers and
neurons. You can play around in the
[link](http://playground.tensorflow.org/#activation=relu&regularization=L2&batchSize=10&dataset=gauss&regDataset=reg-plane&learningRate=0.03&regularizationRate=0.003&noise=5&networkShape=4,2&seed=0.65721&showTestData=false&discretize=false&percTrainData=70&x=true&y=true&xTimesY=false&xSquared=fa).

# Train a neural network with TensorFlow

In this part of the tutorial, you will learn how to train a neural
network with TensorFlow using the API's estimator `DNNClassifier`.

We will use the MNIST dataset to train your first neural network.
Training a neural network with Tensorflow is not very complicated. The
preprocessing step looks precisely the same as in the previous
tutorials. You will proceed as follow:

Step 1: Import the data

Step 2: Transform the data

Step 3: Construct the tensor

Step 4: Build the model

Step 5: Train and evaluate the model

Step 6: Improve the model

**Step 1**: Import the data

First of all, you need to import the necessary library. You can import
the MNIST dataset using scikit learn.

The MNIST dataset is the commonly used dataset to test new techniques or
algorithms. This dataset is a collection of 28x28 pixel image with a
handwritten digit from 0 to 9. Currently, the lowest error on the test
is 0.27 percent with a committee of 7 convolutional neural networks.


```python
import numpy as np
import tensorflow as tf
np.random.seed(1337)
```

    /Users/Thomas/anaconda3/envs/hello-tf/lib/python3.6/importlib/_bootstrap.py:219: RuntimeWarning: compiletime version 3.5 of module 'tensorflow.python.framework.fast_tensor_util' does not match runtime version 3.6
      return f(*args, **kwds)


You can download scikit learn temporarily at this address. Copy and
paste the dataset in a convenient folder. To import the data to python,
you can use fetch\_mldata from scikit learn. Paste the file path
inside fetch\_mldata to fetch the data.


```python
from sklearn.datasets import fetch_mldata
mnist = fetch_mldata('/Users/Thomas/Dropbox/Learning/Upwork/tuto_TF/data/mldata/MNIST original')
print(mnist.data.shape)
print(mnist.target.shape)
```

    (70000, 784)
    (70000,)


After that, you import the data and get the shape of both datasets.


```python
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split

X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(mnist.data, mnist.target, test_size=0.2, random_state=42)
y_train  = y_train.astype(int)
y_test  = y_test.astype(int)
batch_size =len(X_train)

print(X_train.shape, y_train.shape,y_test.shape )
```

    (56000, 784) (56000,) (14000,)


**Step 2**: Transform the data

In the previous tutorial, you learnt that you need to transform the data
to limit the effect of outliers. In this tutorial, you will transform
the data using the min-max scaler. The formula is:

$$
(X-min_x)/(max_x - min_x)
$$

Scikit learns has already a function for that: MinMaxScaler()


```python
## resclae
from sklearn.preprocessing import MinMaxScaler
scaler = MinMaxScaler()
# Train
X_train_scaled = scaler.fit_transform(X_train.astype(np.float64))
# test
X_test_scaled = scaler.fit_transform(X_test.astype(np.float64))
```

**Step 3**: Construct the tensor

You are now familiar with the way to create tensor in Tensorflow. You
can convert the train set to a numeric column.


```python
feature_columns = [
      tf.feature_column.numeric_column('x', shape=X_train_scaled.shape[1:])]
```

**Step 4**: Build the model

The architecture of the neural network contains 2 hidden layers with 300
units for the first layer and 100 units for the second one. We use these
value based on our own experience. You can tune theses values and see
how it affects the accuracy of the network.

To build the model, you use the estimator `DNNClassifier`. You can add
the number of layers to the `feature_columns` arguments. You need to set
the number of classes to 10 as there are ten classes in the training
set. You are already familiar with the syntax of the estimator object.
The arguments features columns, number of classes and model\_dir are
precisely the same as in the previous tutorial. The new argument
hidden\_unit controls for the number of layers and how many nodes to
connect to the neural network. In the code below, there are two hidden
layers with a first one connecting 300 nodes and the second one with 100
nodes.

To build the estimator, use tf.estimator.DNNClassifier with the
following parameters:

-   feature\_columns: Define the columns to use in the network

-   hidden\_units: Define the number of hidden neurons

-   n\_classes: Define the number of classes to predict

-   model\_dir: Define the path of TensorBoard


```python
estimator = tf.estimator.DNNClassifier(
    feature_columns=feature_columns,
    hidden_units=[300, 100], 
    n_classes=10, 
    model_dir = 'train/DNN')

```

    INFO:tensorflow:Using default config.
    INFO:tensorflow:Using config: {'_model_dir': 'train/DNN', '_tf_random_seed': None, '_save_summary_steps': 100, '_save_checkpoints_steps': None, '_save_checkpoints_secs': 600, '_session_config': None, '_keep_checkpoint_max': 5, '_keep_checkpoint_every_n_hours': 10000, '_log_step_count_steps': 100, '_train_distribute': None, '_device_fn': None, '_service': None, '_cluster_spec': <tensorflow.python.training.server_lib.ClusterSpec object at 0x1a30b9c898>, '_task_type': 'worker', '_task_id': 0, '_global_id_in_cluster': 0, '_master': '', '_evaluation_master': '', '_is_chief': True, '_num_ps_replicas': 0, '_num_worker_replicas': 1}


**Step 5**: Train and evaluate the model

You can use the numpy method to train the model and evaluate it


```python
# Train the estimator

train_input = tf.estimator.inputs.numpy_input_fn(
    x={"x": X_train_scaled},
    y=y_train,
    batch_size=50,
    shuffle=False,
    num_epochs=None)

estimator.train(input_fn = train_input,steps=1000) 

eval_input = tf.estimator.inputs.numpy_input_fn(
    x={"x": X_test_scaled},
    y=y_test, 
    shuffle=False,
    batch_size=X_test_scaled.shape[0],
    num_epochs=1)

estimator.evaluate(eval_input,steps=None) 

```

    INFO:tensorflow:Calling model_fn.
    INFO:tensorflow:Done calling model_fn.
    INFO:tensorflow:Create CheckpointSaverHook.
    INFO:tensorflow:Graph was finalized.
    INFO:tensorflow:Running local_init_op.
    INFO:tensorflow:Done running local_init_op.
    INFO:tensorflow:Saving checkpoints for 0 into train/DNN/model.ckpt.
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 116.14958, step = 1
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 148.171
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 8.069234, step = 101 (0.676 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 272.539
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 5.11685, step = 201 (0.368 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 258.339
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 12.4306, step = 301 (0.390 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 248.712
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 24.453392, step = 401 (0.399 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 139.168
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 9.068949, step = 501 (0.723 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 156.005
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 11.679946, step = 601 (0.640 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 242.464
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 8.266565, step = 701 (0.409 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 188.162
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 12.048694, step = 801 (0.533 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 272.541
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 1.7620034, step = 901 (0.365 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:Saving checkpoints for 1000 into train/DNN/model.ckpt.
    INFO:tensorflow:Loss for final step: 6.3834105.
    INFO:tensorflow:Calling model_fn.
    INFO:tensorflow:Done calling model_fn.
    INFO:tensorflow:Starting evaluation at 2018-08-29-19:21:22
    INFO:tensorflow:Graph was finalized.
    INFO:tensorflow:Restoring parameters from train/DNN/model.ckpt-1000
    INFO:tensorflow:Running local_init_op.
    INFO:tensorflow:Done running local_init_op.
    INFO:tensorflow:Finished evaluation at 2018-08-29-19:21:23
    INFO:tensorflow:Saving dict for global step 1000: accuracy = 0.9647143, average_loss = 0.11590882, global_step = 1000, loss = 1622.7234
    INFO:tensorflow:Saving 'checkpoint_path' summary for global step 1000: train/DNN/model.ckpt-1000





    {'accuracy': 0.9647143,
     'average_loss': 0.11590882,
     'loss': 1622.7234,
     'global_step': 1000}



The current architecture leads to an accuracy on the the evaluation set
of 96 percent.

**Step 6**: Improve the model

You can try to improve the model by adding regularization parameters.

We will use an Adam optimizer with a dropout rate of 0.3, L1 of X and L2
of y. In TensorFlow, you can control the optimizer using the object
train following by the name of the optimizer. TensorFlow is a built-in
API for Proximal AdaGrad optimizer.

To add regularization to the deep neural network, you can use
tf.train.ProximalAdagradOptimizer with the following parameter

-   Learning rate: learning\_rate

-   L1 regularization: l1\_regularization\_strength

-   L2 regularization: l2\_regularization\_strength


```python
estimator_imp = tf.estimator.DNNClassifier(
    feature_columns=feature_columns,
    hidden_units=[300, 100],
    dropout=0.3, 
    n_classes = 10,
    optimizer=tf.train.ProximalAdagradOptimizer(
      learning_rate=0.01,
      l1_regularization_strength=0.01, 
      l2_regularization_strength=0.01
    ),
    model_dir = 'train/DNN1')

estimator_imp.train(input_fn = train_input,steps=1000) 

estimator_imp.evaluate(eval_input,steps=None) 

```

    INFO:tensorflow:Using default config.
    INFO:tensorflow:Using config: {'_model_dir': 'train/DNN1', '_tf_random_seed': None, '_save_summary_steps': 100, '_save_checkpoints_steps': None, '_save_checkpoints_secs': 600, '_session_config': None, '_keep_checkpoint_max': 5, '_keep_checkpoint_every_n_hours': 10000, '_log_step_count_steps': 100, '_train_distribute': None, '_device_fn': None, '_service': None, '_cluster_spec': <tensorflow.python.training.server_lib.ClusterSpec object at 0x1a3068f9b0>, '_task_type': 'worker', '_task_id': 0, '_global_id_in_cluster': 0, '_master': '', '_evaluation_master': '', '_is_chief': True, '_num_ps_replicas': 0, '_num_worker_replicas': 1}
    INFO:tensorflow:Calling model_fn.
    INFO:tensorflow:Done calling model_fn.
    INFO:tensorflow:Create CheckpointSaverHook.
    INFO:tensorflow:Graph was finalized.
    INFO:tensorflow:Running local_init_op.
    INFO:tensorflow:Done running local_init_op.
    INFO:tensorflow:Saving checkpoints for 0 into train/DNN1/model.ckpt.
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 122.4352, step = 1
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 155.982
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 15.444752, step = 101 (0.642 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 163.754
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 18.625359, step = 201 (0.611 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 203.56
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 20.86503, step = 301 (0.490 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 195.616
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 30.648073, step = 401 (0.511 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 249.35
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 18.274332, step = 501 (0.401 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 228.582
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 18.599123, step = 601 (0.438 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 215.582
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 16.410215, step = 701 (0.463 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 125.116
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 16.43654, step = 801 (0.801 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 145.015
    INFO:tensorflow:loss = 11.358902, step = 901 (0.689 sec)
    INFO:tensorflow:Saving checkpoints for 1000 into train/DNN1/model.ckpt.
    INFO:tensorflow:Loss for final step: 8.953126.
    INFO:tensorflow:Calling model_fn.
    INFO:tensorflow:Done calling model_fn.
    INFO:tensorflow:Starting evaluation at 2018-08-29-19:21:37
    INFO:tensorflow:Graph was finalized.
    INFO:tensorflow:Restoring parameters from train/DNN1/model.ckpt-1000
    INFO:tensorflow:Running local_init_op.
    INFO:tensorflow:Done running local_init_op.
    INFO:tensorflow:Finished evaluation at 2018-08-29-19:21:38
    INFO:tensorflow:Saving dict for global step 1000: accuracy = 0.944, average_loss = 0.19624874, global_step = 1000, loss = 2747.4824
    INFO:tensorflow:Saving 'checkpoint_path' summary for global step 1000: train/DNN1/model.ckpt-1000





    {'accuracy': 0.944,
     'average_loss': 0.19624874,
     'loss': 2747.4824,
     'global_step': 1000}



The values chosen to reduce the over fitting did not improve the model accuracy. Your first model had an accuracy of 96% while the model with L2 regularizer has an accuracy of 95%. You can try with different values and see how it impacts the accuracy.

**Summary**

In this tutorial, you learn how to build a neural network. A neural
network requires:

-   Number of hidden layers

-   Number of fully connected node

-   Activation function

-   Optimizer

-   Number of classes

In TensorFlow, you can train a neural network for classification problem
with:

-   `tf.estimator.DNNClassifier`

The estimator requires to specify:

-   `feature_columns=feature_columns`,

-   `hidden_units=[300, 100]`

-   `n_classes=10`

-   `model_dir`

You can improve the model by using different optimizers. In this
tutorial, you learned how to use Adam Grad optimizer with a learning
rate and add a control to prevent overfitting.
